Spring classes announcement work in progress (#229)
SFPC/sfpc.github.io: darkmatters-spring2020.md

---
title: Dark Matters Expanded  
layout: participate2
location:
contact: sfpc
---
 
![](/static/img/darkmatters/darkmatters3.png) 

### Dark Matters Expanded  

> - May 20th ~ July 22nd, total of 10 classes plus additional times for one-on-ones and class discussions (Details in schedule below)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- May 20th – July 22nd, a total of 10 classes plus additional times for one-on-ones and class discussions. Details in schedule below.
```

> - Classes will be held Wednesdays, from 1pm - 3pm EST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Classes will be held Wednesdays, from 1pm – 3pm EST.
```

This class relies on an expanded notion of study, where we will challenge one another to think outside the box about what learning is and ultimately can be. We will also look at the practices of contemporary artists critiquing (and expanding the imaginary within) technology as examples of how radical imagination can be evoked through artistic practice. By the end of the class we will publish a digital publication containing original contributions from every member of the class. 

### What will students be learning?
- The ability to communicate complex ideas through writing and discussion with peers.
- A more conscientious approach to developing new tech and design solutions that reflect our current moment which prioritizes equity.
- A nuanced critical perspective towards technological objects and their generation of power and control in society.
- A thorough knowledge of the history of surveillance practices in the United States.
- An understanding of the economy which assumes the possibility of humans being valued as commodities.
- An interdisciplinary understanding of the relationship between art, design, technology, and economics.

### Who are the teachers?

> **[American Artist](https://americanartist.us/), Teacher** - is an artist whose work considers black labor and visibility within networked life. Their practice makes use of video, installation, new media, and writing. Artist is a 2018-2019 recipient of the Queens Museum Jerome Foundation Fellowship. They are a former resident of Pioneer Works Tech Residency, EYEBEAM, Abrons Art Center, and completed the Whitney Independent Study program as an artist in 2017. They have exhibited at the Museum of African Diaspora, San Francisco; the Studio Museum in Harlem; Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago, and Koenig & Clinton, New York. Their work has been featured in the New York Times, Artforum, ARTnews, and Huffington Post. They have published writing in The New Inquiry and Art21 and have been featured in The New York Times, Artforum, ARTnews, and Huffington Post. Artist is a part-time faculty at The New School and teaches Critical Theory at SFPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**[American Artist](https://americanartist.us/), Teacher** - is an artist whose work considers black labor and visibility within networked life. Their practice makes use of video, installation, new media, and writing. Artist is a 2018-2019 recipient of the Queens Museum Jerome Foundation Fellowship. They are a former resident of Pioneer Works Tech Residency, EYEBEAM, Abrons Art Center, and completed the Whitney Independent Study program as an artist in 2017. They have exhibited at the Museum of African Diaspora, San Francisco; the Studio Museum in Harlem; Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago, and Koenig & Clinton, New York. They have published writing in The New Inquiry and Art21 and their work has been featured in The New York Times, Artforum, ARTnews, and Huffington Post. Artist is a part-time faculty at The New School and teaches Critical Theory at SFPC.
```

> **[Zainab Aliyu (Zai)](zai.zone), Teaching Assistant** - is a cultural worker, designer and artist based in New York. Her practice, which spans installations, virtual environments, archives, writings, printed matter and community-participatory (de)programming, interrogates the cybernetic and temporal entanglement embedded within societal dynamics. Zai is an alum of the Fall 2019 cohort at SFPC. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**[Zainab Aliyu (Zai)](https://zai.zone), Teaching Assistant** - is a cultural worker, designer and artist based in New York. Her practice, which spans installations, virtual environments, archives, writings, printed matter and community-participatory (de)programming, interrogates the cybernetic and temporal entanglement embedded within societal dynamics. Zai is an alum of the Fall 2019 cohort at SFPC. 
```

> This class is organized by Lauren Gardner of the School for Poetic Computation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class is organized by Lauren Gardner of SFPC.
```

### How will the class be conducted?  

> We will conduct the class online via Zoom between 1 to 3 pm EST on Wednesdays. Teacher and TA will be available at dedicated hours through the week for individual questions and discussion. In addition to online classes and one-on-ones, we will be using Slack for communication, Google calendar to stay organized, Calend.ly to schedule one-on-ones, and Zoom for class meetings and office hours. You do not need to create accounts on these services yet, we will send you information once you are accepted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will conduct the class online via Zoom between 1 to 3 pm EST on Wednesdays. Both teacher and TA will be available at dedicated hours through the week for individual questions and discussion. In addition to online classes and one-on-ones, we will be using Slack for communication, Google Calendar to stay organized, Calendly to schedule one-on-ones, and Zoom for class meetings and office hours. You do not need to create accounts on these services yet, we will send you information once you are accepted. 
```

### Schedule

There will be one 45-minute lecture video each week that you must watch before meeting together as a class.

Online class meetings will take place Wednesdays, 1pm to 3pm EST (Mandatory)
Approximately 2 hours of Teacher & 5 hours of TA support during the week based on student availability. Use this time to schedule one-on-ones to review any questions you might have about readings and assignments.

**- Week 1 Orientation** History of SFPC, code of conduct, learning objectives, about the zine publication, meet the students 

**- Week 2: Software as Ideology** We will be looking at the origin of computer interfaces and how they obscure reality, compared to a traditional model of ideology.

**- Week 3: The Land Before Silicon Valley** This discussion will focus on the origins of settler colonialism in the Western United States and the preface to modern-day Silicon Valley.

**- Week 4: Towards an Unsovereign Technology** This week begins with American Artist’s theory of the Black Gooey, and what an unsovereign technology might look like. + Guest Meal

> **- Week 5: Surveillance Studies** We will begin considering the origins of surveillance technology in the United States, and it’s roots in racial capital.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**- Week 5: Surveillance Studies** We will begin considering the origins of surveillance technology in the United States, and its roots in racial capital.
```

**- Week 6:The Birth of Biometrics** Building on the previous week, we will unpack how the body as data is related to the legacy of racial slavery.+ Guest Meal

**- Week 7: America’s Debt Economy** This week’s discussion is an overview of neoliberal economic practices in America, their effect on social life, and the growth of policing and incarceration.

**- Week 8: A Recent History of Algorithmic Policing** Building on the previous discussion we will look at how the Military, University, High Tech, and Police came together to create a perfect data storm.

**- Week 9: Reimagining Justice** We will consider the history of light as a tool of oppression and illumination as well as how to proceed in creating an equitable future within technology.

> **- Week 10: Graduation/Salon** We will share our collaborative publication with the community via Zoom event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**- Week 10: Graduation/Salon** We will share our collaborative publication with the community via a Zoom event.
```

| ![Final project from Neta Zainab Aliyu displayed at student showcase](/static/img/darkmatters/darkmatters2.png) |
|:--:|
| *Final project from Zainab Aliyu displayed at student showcase* |

### How much is tuition?

We are offering different options for student engagement in the hopes of making this class more accessable and for it to reach a larger audience.

When enrollment opens, we will prioritize applicants for the cohort. If we fill the cohort, we will open an additional auditing / independent study option. If you are intersted in auditing the class, please let us know in the application and we will contact you once the cohort is full.

$975 (Cohort) 
* First week orientation
* Up to 1 hour office hours across the 10 weeks
* Contribute to zine
* 8 weeks x  2 hour discussion with American and Zai
** Afternoon session (18 students) 
** 30 min breakouts during 2 hr session
* Last week culmination

$1200 Cohort Add-on ($975 + $225) - everything mentioned above, plus:
* 2+ Dinners with special guests/Q&A hangout (10 students max)
** Send lecture and/or reading related to guest beforehand
* Unlimited sign up for available office hours
* Group studio visit with American Artist

> We will cap the enrollment for the cohort + cohort add on at 18 students max with a limit of 10 students max for the add on portion. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will cap the enrollment for the cohort + cohort add-on at 18 students max with a limit of 10 students max for the add-on portion. 
```

 
$125 (Auditing / Independent Study) - capped at 50 people 
* 8 weeks of 45 min weekly lecture videos
* Access to readings and guides  

#### Notes about costs

> - Price of classes does not include Eventbrite Processing Fees

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Price of classes does not include Eventbrite processing fees
```

> We are completely self-funded, which dramatically limits our ability to offer scholarships. While we price our classes reasonably to offer quality learning experiences, we understand the tuition is beyond the reach of many people. We are sensitive to the rapidly changing economy due to the COVID-19. While we can't offer scholarships like the past, we hope to support students in need. Our previous students have received support from cultural foundations, schools, current employers, or crowdfunding. We are happy to provide supporting materials as proof of acceptance. Please check out these resources for financial support in response to the COVID19 pandemic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are completely self-funded, which dramatically limits our ability to offer scholarships. While we price our classes reasonably to offer quality learning experiences, we understand the tuition is beyond the reach of many people. We are sensitive to the rapidly changing economy due to covid-19. While we can't offer scholarships like the past, we hope to support students in need. Our previous students have received support from cultural foundations, schools, current employers, or crowdfunding. We are happy to provide supporting materials as proof of acceptance. Please check out these resources for financial support in response to the covid-19 pandemic.
```

- [Cloud9 Mutual Aid Doc: Financial Assistance](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Qo_w8b6u2yXKzE7dIUmSeWqk3FFrqS1KhoCGzqcmZiQ/edit#heading=h.8jojokwzkoa7)
- [The Art of Social Distancing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/1/d/e/2PACX-1vTt0lJMLDRlx_HsE132C3aGFa-D_rvk8rDVtkt9E7BH0jVQHrv-zD0favR98AtgTlPbNl2A5RPDH63X/pubhtml)

> We are committed to being fully transparent about how we make and spend money. In the spirit of radical openness and generosity, on which the school was founded, we open-source our [finances on Github](https://github.com/sfpc/finance-and-administration). There, you can read financial reports and download raw statements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are committed to being fully transparent about how we make and spend money. In the spirit of radical openness and generosity, on which the school was founded, we open-source our [finances on GitHub](https://github.com/sfpc/finance-and-administration). There, you can read financial reports and download raw statements.
```
